Jeremiah M. Coholich
jcoholich@gatech.edu | (281) 794 - 7341 | linkedin.com/in/jeremiah-coholich/
EDUCATION
Ph.D. Robotics Expected May 2024
Georgia Institute of Technology
Bachelor of Science, Mechanical Engineering, Highest Honors May 2019
The University of Texas at Austin
Overall GPA: 3.98 / 4.0
GRE Score: Verbal (169 / 170, 99th pctl), Quantitative (168 / 170, 93th pctl), Writing (5.0 / 6.0, 92nd pctl)
Courses: Statistical Machine Learning (Matthieu Bloch), Nonlinear Controls (Ye-Hwa Chen), Linear Systems Theory
(Erik Verriest), Introduction to Robotics Research (Sean Wilson)
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
Ph.D. Student, Laboratory for Intelligent Decision and Autonomous Robots August 2019 – Present
 Study nonlinear optimization of biped walking gaits on Cassie robot from Agility Robotics
 Wrote program for hybrid trajectory optimization of five-link walker on soft terrain using MATLAB, FROST
(developed by Ayonga Hereid), IPOPT, and Wolfram Mathematica
 Operate Cassie robot and tune PD controller gains
 Advise undergraduate team in creating upper-body robot and building Cassie test hardware
 Coauthored conference paper on sensor-embedded Cassie foot prototype for terrain classification
Research Assistant, Human Centered Robotics Lab February 2018 – May 2019
 Implemented and debugged a model-based, multi-input controller with a disturbance observer and discrete-time
filters for a series-elastic augmentation exoskeleton with a flexible cuff under the mentorship of a PhD student
 Selected as one of 15 finalists out of 250 students at the Longhorn Research Poster Session for undergraduates
 Designed and performed system ID experiments to determine the six parameter estimates for this exoskeleton
 Designed and fabricated an adjustable-stiffness cuff flexure and a locking component for the exoskeleton
 Modeled a 3-axis robotic joint in order to aid in placement of actuators and prevent issues with gimbal lock
 Designed new linkage for robotic joint to increase accuracy of force control and decrease actuator load
Research Assistant, Laboratory for Freeform Fabrication (Additive Manufacturing) July 2016 – August 2016
 Conducted study on relationship between SLS machine laser energy density and part density and tensile strength
 Ran lab operations including powder preparation and repair of delta-style FDM 3D printer
INDUSTRY AND PROJECT EXPERIENCE
Associate Engineer, SpaceX June 2019 – July 2019
 Performed testing and troubleshooting for two Dragon 2 environmental seals including assembly of seals and test
hardware, life cycling, TVAC, leak check, and SpaceX documentation
 Redesigned another flight seal, held critical design review, procured seals, designed test hardware and procedure
Intern, Harmonic Bionics (Rehabilitation Exoskeleton Startup) May 2018 – August 2018
 Finalized design for six robotics linkages, including FEA, DFM, DFA, safety, aesthetics, wiring, and drawings
 Designed spring counterbalance mechanism for 30 Nm robotic joint including geometry and torque calculations
 Calculated torque requirements for seven robotic joints based on weight, moment of inertia, and external forces
 Designed and machined stand for upper-body exoskeleton, including tipping and CG calculations plus packaging
 Assisted with branding, shipping, and designing sales demo kits for proprietary EtherCAT devices
Robotic Mechanisms and Testing Co-op, NASA JPL May 2017 – December 2017
 Ran life testing and designed test equipment for percussion unit in the Mars 2020 Rover’s coring drill
 Designed ground support equipment for percussion unit and other coring mechanisms and made drawings with
GD&T
 Assembled, disassembled, cleaned, and inspected percussion unit prototypes
 Analyzed data from springs, percussion frequency, and force from throughout life testing
Engineering Boot Camp, Bell Helicopter January 2017
 Competed in team design challenge involving the Bell 429 Helicopter and presented solution to Bell Executive
Leadership Team
Team Captain, Longhorn Racing Electric FSAE Team May 2016 – June 2017
 Built an electric, formula-style racecar for FSAE competition of June 2017
 Managed 46 members divided into five different sub-teams
 Worked on designs for frame, steering, battery mounting, ergonomics, and drivetrain
 Presided over weekly team meetings and team workday
 Personally secured over $7,000 worth of material and monetary donations
Powertrain Team Lead, Business Team Lead, Longhorn Racing Electric FSAE Team August 2015 – May 2016
 Restarted Formula Society of Automotive Engineers Electric Team at UT
 Researched and designed electric powertrain with single motor, chain drive, and rear differential
 Managed fundraising, corporate relationships, public relations, and efforts of business team members
PUBLICATIONS
Xiaofeng Guo, Bryan Blaise, Jennifer Molnar, Jeremiah Coholich, Shantanu Padte, Ye Zhao, and Frank L. Hammond III.
“Soft Foot Sensor Design and Terrain Classification for Dynamic Legged Locomotion”. Accepted at IEEE International
Conference on Soft Robotics 2020.
Coholich, Jeremiah. “Flexure Design and Disturbance Observer for Strength Amplification Exoskeleton”. Poster
presented at: Longhorn Research Poster Session, Austin, TX. 2019, Apr 17
G. C. Thomas, J. M. Coholich, and L. Sentis, "Compliance Shaping for Control of Strength Amplification Exoskeletons
with Elastic Cuffs," presented at The IEEE/ASME International Conference on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics, Hong
Kong, China, 2019
David Bourell, Jeremiah Coholich, Antoine Chalancon, Abhimanyu Bhat. “Evaluation of energy density measures and
validation for powder bed fusion of polyamide.” CIRP Annals Manufacturing Technology Vol. 1, 66 (Aug. 2017), pp.
217-220.
SKILLS
 MATLAB, Python, ROS, Wolfram Mathematica, Ubuntu
 SolidWorks and SolidWorks FEA, Siemens NX and Teamcenter and some NASTRAN (4 years)
 Manual and CNC machining and fabrication experience (4 years)
HONORS
President’s Fellowship 2019 -2023
 Internal “topper” fellowship awarded to top 10% of Georgia Tech Ph.D. applicant pool
Phi Kappa Phi Chapter Excellence Award, UT nominee for national graduate Fellowship Spring 2019
George W. Bean Endowed Presidential Scholarship 2016 – 2019
Distinguished College Scholar 2016 – 2019
 Awarded for ranking in top 4% of engineering class
PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES
Kappa Theta Epsilon National Co-op Honor Society, Member 2018 – 2019
 Excellent employer evaluations required for membership
 Mentored first-year undergraduate students 